Our diffusion curve generator (DCG) is an online tool that has been developed to generate diffusion curves relating to technology adoption or product sales.  The work underpinning the DCG was undertaken at the University of Sheffield, in the United Kingdom, and is a unique combination of two separate bodies of work; the Bass model of product diffusion and Bayesian expert elicitation (Grimm et al 2018).  This combination allows probabilistic estimates of diffusion that are based on established theory and modelling methods to be generated.
The diffusion estimates produced by the DCG can be used for a variety of purposes, including budget impact modelling, infectious disease modelling, dynamic cost-effectiveness modelling (Grimm et al 2016 and Grimm et al 2017) and sales forecasting.
From this Homepage, you can go straight to the DCG, take a tutorial, read more about the underlying methods, look at a bibliography of papers relating to our DCG or check out FAQs.  If you have any comments or suggestions, you can also contact us.

Finally, if you publish or present anything that uses our DCG, please let us know by e-mailing s.dixon@sheffield.ac.uk

Grimm SE, Dixon S, Stevens JW. When Future Change Matters: Modeling Future Price and Diffusion in Health Technology Assessments of Medical Devices. Value Health. 2016 Sep - Oct;19(6):720-726. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2016.06.002.
Grimm SE, Dixon S, Stevens JW. Assessing the Expected Value of Research Studies in Reducing Uncertainty and Improving Implementation Dynamics. Med Decis Making. 2017 Jul;37(5):523-533. doi: 10.1177/0272989X16686766. 
