Our DCG produces diffusion curves using the Bass model of product diffusion.  The Bass model is based on the diffusion theory popularised by Everett Rogers, in his book Diffusion of Innovations which was first published in 1962.  The Bass model is a parametric formulation of diffusion, based on three parameters; the coefficient of innovation (p), the coefficient of imitation (q) and the maximum number of adopters (m).

Identifying values for p and q, however, is difficult as they do not have a readily understandable meaning.  Consequently, the DCG uses three points on the underlying diffusion curve; the number of adoptions in the first period (N1), the time at which adoption starts to decelerate (t’) and the maximum number of adopters (m).  Estimates of these three points are then used to generate values of p, q and m that best fit the underlying diffusion curve.

By specifying the values of N1, t’ and m as parametric distributions, probabilistic estimates of p and q can be produced.  These in turn can be used to estimate the underlying diffusion curve probabilistically, which can be summarised in terms of mean and centile curves.  The parametric distributions are best developed through a process of expert elicitation using Bayesian principles, for example, using the Sheffield Elicitation Framework (SHELF). More information on elicitation can be found in the “Expert elicitation” tab.

The steps that the DCG uses to take the user through this process are:

1. Specify how many sets of expert elicitations you have [Expand].

  The DCG can produce probabilistic estimates of diffusion curves based on the elicitations of one to ten experts. It will produce an aggregated curve when more than one expert’s elicitation results are inputted.  The aggregated curve can be generated by either linear aggregation or model averaging.  If the user wishes to use an alternative weighting method, they will need to aggregate the results outside the DCG, then input the resultant values as the only expert. 

2. Select the distributions for the three diffusion parameters [Expand].

  For each expert, the distributions describing their probabilistic estimates of N1, t’ and m need to be selected.  The choice of distribution is limited to those that are the main focus of SHELF and which have subsequently been incorporated within the online MATCH Uncertainty Elicitation Tool (Morris et al, 2014).  These are; normal, Student-t, Scaled beta, gamma, log normal or log student-t.

3. Input the expert elicitations for the three diffusion parameters [Expand].

  For each expert, the parameters relating to each distribution need to be entered.

4. Specify the outputs that you require [Expand].

  The default set of outputs are a graph of the mean diffusion curve together with its associated 95% confidence intervals, plus a table of data points.  Each of these are generated for a default time horizon and time intervals calculated within the DCG.
Several other options are possible:

  - Alternative centiles
  - Diffusion curves for all experts
  - Tables of diffusion curve data for all experts
  - CSV file of all data points
  - User specified time horizon
  - Different number of samples


5. Run the DCG [Expand]

  Once the above data are entered and the options chosen, click “Run”; testing shows that the calculations take approximately 1 second.

6. View and download your results [Expand].

  The default set of outputs are a graph of the mean diffusion curve together with its associated 95% confidence intervals, plus a table of data points.  Additional outputs and variations are possible based on the options selected previously.  These can be amended without the need to re-run the DCG.  Once you are happy that the outputs meet your requirements, the results can be exported as a Word or pdf document and the data within each table exported as csv files.

#### Reference:
Morris D, Oakley J, Crowe J.  A web-based tool for eliciting probability distributions from experts. Environmental Modelling & Software 2014;52:1-4.
